## Writing sample

> This section copyright Halpern, Koren and Szeidl, 2015. Please cite as
> 
> Halpern, László, Miklós Koren and Adam Szeidl. 2015. "Imported Inputs and Productivity" American Economic Review. 105(12), pp. 3660-3703.

Understanding the link between international trade and aggregate productivity is one of the major challenges in international economics. To learn more about this link at the microeconomic level, a recent literature explores the effect of imported inputs—which constitute the majority of world trade—on firm productivity. Studies show that improved access to foreign inputs has increased firm productivity in several countries, including Indonesia (Amiti and Konings 2007), Chile (Kasahara and Rodrigue 2008) and India (Topalova and Khandelwal 2011).1 A next step in this research agenda is to investigate the underlying mechanism through which imports increase productivity. As Hallak and Levinsohn (2008) emphasize, understanding which firms gain most, through what channel, and how the effect depends on the economic environment, are important for evaluating the welfare and redistributive implications of trade policies.

To explore these questions, we estimate a structural model of importer firms in Hungarian firm-level data, and conduct counterfactual policy analysis in our estimated economy. Our starting point is a dataset that contains detailed information on imported goods for essentially all Hungarian manufacturing firms during 1992-2003. Motivated by stylized facts in these data, we formulate a model of firms who use differentiated inputs to produce a final good. Firms must pay a fixed cost each period for each variety they choose to import. Imported inputs affect firm productivity through two distinct channels: as in quality-ladder models they may have a higher price-adjusted quality, and as in product-variety models they imperfectly substitute domestic inputs.2 Because of these forces, firm productivity increases in the number of varieties imported. Our model also permits rich heterogeneity across products and firms.

In the first half of the paper we estimate this model in micro data. In doing so, we face the key empirical challenge that imports are chosen endogenously by the firm. We deal with this identification problem using a structural approach which exploits the product-level nature of the data. Our model implies a firm-level production function in which output depends on capital, labor, materials, and a term related to the number of imported varieties. To estimate this production function, we follow Olley and Pakes (1996) in nonparametrically controlling for firm investment and other state variables, which pick up the unobserved component of productivity. We also build on the approach of De Loecker (2011) to control for demand effects, and follow Gandhi, Navarro and Rivers (2013) in estimating the materials coefficient from input demand. Given these controls, the import effect is identified from residual variation in the number of imported varieties. Intuitively, we estimate the difference in output between two firms that have the same productivity and face the same level of demand, but differ in the number of varieties they choose to import, which, according to our model, happens because they face a different fixed cost of importing.

Our results show that the productivity gains from imported inputs are substantial. In the baseline specification, increasing the fraction of tradeable goods imported by a firm from zero to 100 percent would increase revenue productivity by 22 percent and quantity productivity by 24 percent. We continue to estimate large productivity gains from importing when—as in models in which the cost of importing is sunk, rather than fixed—measures of the firm’s past importing behavior are included as state variables. These results suggest that imported inputs play a significant role in shaping firm performance in the Hungarian economy.

We then turn to decompose the import effect into the quality and imperfect substitution channels. We first note that for a given productivity gain from importing a good, the degree of substitution governs a firm's expenditure share of foreign versus domestic purchases. For example, when foreign and domestic inputs are close to perfect substitutes, even if the productivity gain from imports is small the import share should be high.3 Based on this idea, we then infer the relative magnitude of the two channels by comparing the expenditure share of imports for firms which differ in the number of imported varieties. We find that combining imperfectly substitutable foreign and domestic varieties is responsible for about half of the productivity gain from imports. This finding parallels the evidence in Goldberg, Khandelwal, Pavcnik and Topalova (2009) that combining foreign and domestic varieties increased firms' product scope in India; and also the theoretical arguments of Hirschman (1958), Kremer (1993) and Jones (2011) that complementarities, which amplify differences in input quality, may help explain large cross-country income differences.

We next explore whether the benefits from importing differ between foreign and domestic firms. We say that a firm "has been foreign owned" if either on the current date or on some past date its majority owners were foreigners.4 Because they have know-how about foreign markets and can access cheap suppliers abroad, these firms may gain more from spending on imports. This is an important possibility because firms that had been foreign owned played a central role in Hungary: during 1992-2003, their sales share in manufacturing increased from 21 percent to 80 percent. When we re-estimate our model allowing for differences in the efficiency of import use by ownership status, we find that firms that have been foreign owned benefit about 24 percent more than purely domestic firms from each dollar they spend on imports. We also conduct an event study of ownership changes which yields suggestive evidence that part of the premium in the efficiency of import use is caused by foreign ownership. This result implies a potential complementarity between foreign presence and importing.

Our analysis also yields estimates of the product-level fixed costs of importing. We find that—as in the model of Gopinath and Neiman (2013)—these costs increase in the number of imported products, and also that the fixed cost schedule of firms that have been foreign owned is below that of domestic firms. Lower import costs are thus a second factor generating higher benefits from importing to foreign firms.

In the second half of the paper, we develop two applications to study the economic and policy implications of our estimates. We first quantify the contribution of imports to productivity growth in Hungary during 1993-2002. Our estimates imply a productivity gain of 21.1 percent in the Hungarian manufacturing sector, of which 5.9 percentage points, more than one quarter, can be attributed to import-related mechanisms. Approximately 80 percent of these import-related gains are due to the increased volume and number of imported inputs, while the other 20 percent is the result of increased foreign ownership in combination with foreign firms being better at using imports. Thus imports contributed substantially to economic growth in Hungary, and the complementarity between foreign presence and importing had a sizeable aggregate effect. These results complement the findings of Gopinath and Neiman (2013) who emphasize the role of imported inputs in driving fluctuations in aggregate productivity.

In our second application we use simulations in the estimated economy to explore the productivity implications of tariff policies. Intuitively, a tariff cut, by reducing the cost of foreign inputs, should raise both firm-level and aggregate productivity. Our main result is that the size of the aggregate productivity gain depends positively on two broad features of the environment: (1) the initial import participation of producers; (2) the degree of foreign presence. Perhaps surprisingly, higher initial import participation—either due to low tariffs or to low fixed costs—implies larger gains from a tariff cut. This is because the set of inputs whose prices are affected is larger, and hence firms save more with the tariff cut. In turn, foreign presence matters because, as we have shown, foreign-owned firms are better in using imports.

These patterns lead to complementarities between different liberalization policies. For example, our simulations show that tariff cuts increase productivity more when the fixed costs of importing—such as licensing or other non-tariff-barriers—are also reduced. Because foreign firms are more effective in using imports, a similar complementarity exists between tariff cuts and FDI liberalization. These complementarities seem broadly consistent with the liberalization experience in the early 1990s in India. Consistent with the fixed cost complementarity, tariff cuts in India, which were accompanied by dismantling substantial non-tariff barriers, lead to rapid growth in new imported varieties (Goldberg et al. 2009) and a large increase in firm productivity (Topalova and Khandelwal 2011). And consistent with the foreign ownership complementarity, these effects were stronger in industries with higher FDI liberalization (Topalova and Khandelwal 2011).
